Behind one of Qatar’s schools,
a digital nightmare is about to unfold.
The classroom hums with the sound of clicking keyboards,
students deep in concentration.
Everything seems normal.
Hamad sits among them,
completely unaware that he’s about
to become ransomware’s next victim.
And in that moment, Hamad’s blood runs cold.
His mind explodes with panic.
“The quiz, the quiz. How did I forget?”
He did not study. He did not prepare. He’s about to fail.
Then a thought creeps into his mind.
Dark, dangerous, tempting.
His fingers move before his brain can stop them.
He types “quiz cheat tool” and clicks enter.
Just like that, he’s opened the door to malware paradise.
Results flood his screen, but these aren’t helpful tools.
These are traps.
There it is, glowing, pulsing,
calling to him: download now.
No questions asked, no verification needed.
Success
The file downloads in seconds.
A mysterious app appears, his golden ticket.
What Hamad doesn’t know,
inside that innocent-looking icon,
ransomware code is waiting, hungry,
ready to strike at the moment he gives it permission.
But wait, stop.
His computer screams again.
Warning, malicious software detected.
Red alerts flash across the screen.
This is it.
It’s detected the ransomware signature.
This is his final chance. Will he listen?
He doesn’t.
“Run anyway,” he clicks,
and the ransomware springs to life.
He thinks he’s safe, but behind the scenes,
the ransomware is executing the primary function:
encryption.
Click, one file locked.
Click, another encrypted.
Click, click, click.
Documents, photos, projects, everything he owns
is being scrambled into unreadable code.
This is what ransomware does.
It holds your digital life hostage. And then,
darkness.
Hamad’s hand slams against his head.
His breath catches. The ransomware has won.
Everything he owns encrypted.
Every file locked behind unbreakable code.
One disastrous click, one moment of panic,
and the ransomware did exactly
what it was designed to do.